# Memory Debugging

The file `lib/memdebug.c` contains debug-versions of a few functions.
Functions such as `malloc()`, `free()`, `fopen()`, `fclose()`, etc that
somehow deal with resources that might give us problems if we "leak" them.
The functions in the memdebug system do nothing fancy, they do their normal
function and then log information about what they just did. The logged data
can then be analyzed after a complete session,

`memanalyze.pl` is the perl script present in `tests/` that analyzes a log
file generated by the memory tracking system. It detects if resources are
allocated but never freed and other kinds of errors related to resource
management.

Internally, the definition of the preprocessor symbol `DEBUGBUILD` restricts
code which is only compiled for debug enabled builds. And symbol `CURLDEBUG`
is used to differentiate code which is _only_ used for memory
tracking/debugging.

Use `-DCURLDEBUG` when compiling to enable memory debugging, this is also
switched on by running configure with `--enable-curldebug`. Use
`-DDEBUGBUILD` when compiling to enable a debug build or run configure with
`--enable-debug`.

`curl --version` will list 'Debug' feature for debug enabled builds, and will
list 'TrackMemory' feature for curl debug memory tracking capable
builds. These features are independent and can be controlled when running the
configure script. When `--enable-debug` is given both features will be
enabled, unless some restriction prevents memory tracking from being used.

## Track Down Memory Leaks

... using the memory debug system. In general, we suggest using valgrind a the
first choice.

### Single-threaded

  Please note that this memory leak system is not adjusted to work in more
  than one thread. If you want/need to use it in a multi-threaded app. Please
  adjust accordingly.

### Build

  Rebuild libcurl with `-DCURLDEBUG` (usually, rerunning configure with
  `--enable-debug` fixes this). `make clean` first, then `make` so that all
  files are actually rebuilt properly. It will also make sense to build
  libcurl with the debug option (usually `-g` to the compiler) so that
  debugging it will be easier if you actually do find a leak in the library.

  This will create a library that has memory debugging enabled.

### Modify Your Application

  Add a line in your application code:

```c
  curl_dbg_memdebug("dump");
```

  This will make the malloc debug system output a full trace of all resources
  using functions to the given file name. Make sure you rebuild your program
  and that you link with the same libcurl you built for this purpose as
  described above.

### Run Your Application

  Run your program as usual. Watch the specified memory trace file grow.

  Make your program exit and use the proper libcurl cleanup functions etc. So
  that all non-leaks are returned/freed properly.

### Analyze the Flow

  Use the `tests/memanalyze.pl` perl script to analyze the dump file:

    tests/memanalyze.pl dump

  This now outputs a report on what resources that were allocated but never
  freed etc. This report is fine for posting to the list.

  If this does not produce any output, no leak was detected in libcurl. Then
  the leak is mostly likely to be in your code.
